# Guidelines for Course Leaders & Learning Assistants

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Overview

The instructor sets policies in the syllabus which all students are
expected to read, understand and adhere to. Every Course Leader (CL) and
Learning Assistant (LA) is expected to read, understand and also follow
these policies.

-   If students ask for special consideration, direct them to the
    instructor and follow up with the instructor if necessary.  Please
    refrain from making policy decisions or discussing possible exceptions
    to policies.

-   Be prepared. Be aware of the course content and expectations. You
    are responsible for knowing the material so that you can effectively
    explain and demonstrate it to students. You should be able to complete the
    assignments, labs, etc. yourself. If you have doubts or concerns
    engage first with your Course Leader (CL) supervisor and/or other
    LAs. If you cannot resolve the issue, ask the instructor for
    clarification.

-   Manage your time. You have made a commitment to this course and will
    be expected to fulfill it. Work and plan ahead. Be aware of upcoming
    due dates in this course as well as your own courses, research,
    personal obligations, etc. Plan ahead and make appropriate
    accommodations if you know there will be an excess of work during a
    period of time.

    However, your own academics should be your priority. If you feel
    that your commitment to this course is adversely affecting your own
    courses, *you need to reach out* to your Instructor and/or
    Course Leader so that we can help you. Accommodations can and will be made.

## Course Structure

This course is structured with a single large lecture section.
Despite the size, it is our goal to foster a greater sense of community
among these students in our department and in our discipline.

The course is a traditional CS1 course covering basic CS1 topics using
the C programming language (offered as our traditional CSCE 155E).
However, in addition to a traditional lecture, we've produced dozens of
lecture/tutorial videos for students to view before and/or after
lecture. We also have extensive required reading (mostly from my free
textbook but also supplemental resources).

We have double the number of weekly lab sessions meeting on Tuesdays
and Thursdays. On Tuesdays, students are paired up and expected to
complete several peer programming exercises. They are expected to
complete the labs in the lab time and are graded only on completion.

The second section (Thursdays) is a "hack session" in which they are
allowed (and encouraged) to collaborate with as many other students as
they wish. They complete small programs or pieces of code that are then
submitted to our online grading system. The hacks are due the following
Monday at midnight.

### Honors Section

In fall semesters I generally also teach CSCE 155H, the honors section
which covers both C and Java in parallel.  See the syllabus for other
differences.

### Online Section(s)

This course may have online sections.  Generally sections numbered 700
are online sections with no on-campus testing.  Sections numbered 800
are for the Nebraska Now (no on-campus testing) programming (generally
high school students).  Sections numbered 900 are online sections with
on-campus testing.  Your instructor will provide additional information
for section(s) being offered in a specific semester.

## General Responsibilities

Learning Assistants will have several responsibilities in addition to
the responsibilities and expectations of the Learning Assistant program.

-   Holding several office hours per week in a designated area

-   Assisting in 1--2 weekly lab and hack sessions and taking attendance

-   Grading hacks, exams and other assignments as necessary

-   Mentoring and helping students in additional office hours, hack
    sessions and online via our online forum

-   General administrative duties (entering grades, paperwork, etc.) as
    necessary

-   Other duties may include course development, materials development
    (solution keys, future exercises, etc.) and other tasks identified
    by the instructor

Course Leaders will have the following general responsibilities

-   Supervising lab/hack sessions and assisting students in them

-   Supervise grading and ensure that all assignments are graded in a
    timely manner

-   Providing quality control (QC) by checking grading and ensuring
    consistency

-   Holding regular office hours in a designated area

-   Be in regular communication and hold weekly meetings with the
    instructor

# Communication

-   We will use an online message board for our primary means of
    communication; use it and encourage students to use it.

-   If you receive email from students, answer it, but redirect them in
    the future to the online message board. If the question/answer would be of benefit to
    the class as a whole, post the question/answer to online message board and inform
    the student they can find the answer there.

-   For communications among instructor(s), CLs and LAs, use the
    online message board but
    make it a private message, viewable only to TAs/instructors.

-   If a question has been asked/answered before, link to the original
    post as your answer.

-   Be professional in all your communications, be courteous and
    helpful.

-   Be prompt in answering communications. No question or email should
    go unanswered for more than 24 business hours (within 24 hours but
    only on business days, i.e. excluding weekends and holidays).


## Weekly Coordinating Meetings

Each week, we will hold regularly scheduled coordination meetings. CLs
are required to attend and LAs are welcome to attend. These meetings are
intended to gather and disseminate information about the past week and
upcoming items. In particular, CLs should be prepared to report and
discuss the following:

-   How well lab/hack went: what went well, what didn't go so well and
    any suggestions on improvements.

-   You should keep an estimate of how much time it took for 50% of the
    students to complete the lab.

-   You should keep an estimate on office hour attendance and the common
    issues/questions that students are having.

-   Share any other information on the course as you see fit

# Grading

### Timeline {#timeline .unnumbered}

-   Hacks are generally due on Monday evenings at midnight. Randomized
    grading assignments are to be posted to the online message board prior to the due
    date/time by the instructor.

-   Learning Assistants are required to have completed their assigned
    grading by 5PM 2 business days after each assignment due date.

-   Course Leaders should have everything reviewed and any issues
    resolved by 5PM 48 business hours later at which time grades will be
    released to students.

-   If Learning Assistants face any impediments or issues to completing
    their grading on time, they should discuss this immediately with
    their CL supervisor or instructor. A Course Leader can then be
    called in "off the bench" to assist with grading that week.

### Instructions

-   To better promote consistency, we will hold a weekly grade demonstration
    meeting in which the instructor will lead and demonstrate the grading of
    a sample of submissions.

-   In addition, LAs will be paired up with each other (generally a more
    experienced LA with a newer LA) and will be expected to "pair grade",
    checking each other's work, helping each other and discussing any
    issues that arise.

-   Grading is done through a combination of the online webgrader system
    and codepost.

-   Time is limited and it should not be wasted trying to troubleshoot
    code that won't compile or run. If the code is ungradeable or does
    not compile/run then take at most 5 minutes to look over the code.
    If the issue can be fixed within that time frame, back up the
    original, fix it, note the differences (via code comments) and grade
    accordingly. If you cannot resolve the issue within 5 minutes,
    assign the student a zero and move on. This will require you to
    login to the command line and edit the files directly. Note that the
    original copy stored in the webhandin system will remain.

-   Grade in accordance to the rubric through codepost. If the rubric
    does not address something or there is a *reasonable* uncertainty,
    discuss it with your CL supervisor.

-   Grade in a consistent manner, both between individual assignments
    and with other graders. There should not be a significant variation
    in points deducted or awarded for similar mistakes or work.
    Consistency and grading quality will be checked by your CL
    supervisor.

-   When you deduct points, give clear and reasonably detailed reasons
    and justifications for doing so. Good feedback is essential for the
    students' learning experience. Put in efforts to provide
    constructive feedback and positive feedback for good work.

-   Make a comment on *every* assignment you grade so that the students
    will know who graded it. This comment should be substantial and
    positive regardless of how the student performed. If poorly, suggest
    strategies for improvement. If they did well, congratulate them.
    Document any further interaction or changes with a comment as well.

-   In general, unless otherwise stated, the formatting of output is
    left up to the student. As long as output formatting is reasonable
    and conveys *just as much* information as the expected output, it
    should be graded as correct.

# Vigilance

-   Be on the lookout for improvements to policies, processes, grading,
    course material, etc. I welcome any and all feedback and would
    appreciate it.

-   Be on the lookout for suspected academic integrity violations, odd
    code idiosyncrasies or patterns not covered in class, similarities
    in code, disparate performance in class/lab/hack and grades
    received, etc. However, never confront a student directly. Bring
    your concerns to the instructor and be sure to document everything.

-   Be on the lookout for racial, gender, or other biases or incidents.
    It is essential that we promote an open and equitable environment
    for everyone. If you see a potential issue or event, please
    intervene and correct it immediately. Report incidences to the
    instructor as soon as possible.
