# Hack 14.0 - Project Preview
## Java Edition
**[School of Computing](https://computing.unl.edu/)**  
**[College of Engineering](https://engineering.unl.edu/)**  
**[University of Nebraska-Lincoln](https://unl.edu)**  
**[University of Nebraska-Omaha](https://http://unomaha.edu/)**  

# Introduction

Hack session activities are small weekly programming assignments
intended to get you started on full programming assignments. You may
complete the hack on your own, but you are *highly encouraged* to work
with another student and form a hack pair. Groups larger than 2 are not
allowed. However, you may discuss the problems *at a high level* with
other students or groups. You may not share code directly outside your
pair.

If you choose to form a Hack Pair, you *must*:

1.  Both join a hack pair on Canvas (go to People then Groups)

2.  You must both work on the hack equally; it must be an equal effort
    by both partners. Do not undermine your partner's learning
    opportunity and do not undermine your own by allowing one parter to
    do all the work.

3.  Both of you should hand in a copy of your code, but we'll grade the
    code under the individual whose last name comes first alphabetically.

## Rubric

You are graded based on style, documentation, design and correctness.
For detail, see the general course rubric.

| Category      | Points |
|---------------|--------|
| Style         | 2      |
| Documentation | 2      |
| Design        | 5      |
| Correctness   | 16     |
| Total         | 25     |

For correctness:
 - Your program(s) *must* compile and run on the grader
 - 4 points each test case, it is okay to be off by 1 cent

# Problem Statement

Data processing is fundamental to Computer Science and many other
disciplines. In this hack you will start a mini-project in which you
will process a large amount of transaction data from a financial
institution. The data represents transactions that transfer funds from
or to an account (this data is derived from financial data generated by
PaySim, a transaction simulator: <https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1>).

## The Data

Transaction data is represented as a flat file in CSV format. The first
line indicates how many records are contained in the file. Each
subsequent line represents a single transaction. A transaction includes
the following pieces of data:

-   A universally unique identifier (UUID), an alphanumeric designation
    that uniquely identifies the transaction

-   The type of transaction, which may be one of the following:
    `PAYMENT`, `TRANSFER`, `WITHDRAWAL`, `DEBIT`, `DEPOSIT`

-   The amount of the transaction

-   The customer account number

-   The customer account balance before the transaction

-   The customer account balance after the transaction

-   The transfer account number or merchant designation identifying
    where the funds are sent

A small example:

```
10
BC377639-37CC-4824-81AF-60177418B46D,PAYMENT,14535.18,C1906093041,83310.00,68774.82,M95867054
A35686EA-BFE7-455E-A027-54D73968E6D3,PAYMENT,11367.98,C371579810,77199.32,65831.34,M1932650331
7721D4C1-5A2E-4AA0-8AC3-351DFC4FE84A,DEPOSIT,159266.75,C1387043512,7777736.40,7937003.15,C553899299
F8A44740-DE85-4477-9E5E-C090AABE0BF2,WITHDRAWAL,79628.70,C739752704,203042.00,123413.30,C579345824
043FD663-236E-4C02-B042-E2642AA6471E,DEBIT,3225.27,C750937249,99375.00,96149.73,C1232504595
E0EB18EC-4EE2-4206-8834-9465992D1B28,PAYMENT,11268.73,C385148617,167267.40,155998.67,M1084205719
C306CA7E-80A0-499E-8CDE-13DFB50C6753,PAYMENT,17526.96,C1474376627,332543.08,315016.12,M1944361847
003C45B2-1356-4C7F-8D8A-EBB7BF026F16,DEPOSIT,149504.20,C386278926,56082.00,205586.20,C1113941243
B7ECC2F3-E455-4EF8-B4DF-55150A9F3B1F,PAYMENT,7676.11,C2018933315,542758.39,535082.28,M1018630839
76947698-1302-47D9-9CAF-66F21A2A6A52,PAYMENT,3240.99,C208944046,4778.00,1537.01,M962275185
```

## Modeling & Loading the Data

To start, you'll need to write a Java class that models a transaction.
Then you'll need to write methods that read and process a data file
containing financial transactions in the format described above. You
should design and implement a good model for this data as you'll use
this code as the basis for producing several reports.

In addition, you should design at least 1 non-trivial test input file
that has at least 2 examples of each type of transaction. Name your file
`transactions.csv` and hand it in.

## Reporting the Data

To ensure that your data parsing works, you'll need to produce a report
that, for each type of transaction, produces a total number of
transactions as well as a total of all amounts of those transactions.
For example, the input above should produce a report that looks something
like the following.

``` text
=======================================
Totals Report
=======================================
Type            Count             Total
=======================================
Payment             6  $       65615.95
Transfer            0  $           0.00
Withdraw            1  $       79628.70
Debit               1  $        3225.27
Deposit             2  $      308770.95
=======================================
Total              10  $      457240.87
```

Your program should take the name of the input file as a command line
argument and output the report to the standard output.

# Instructions

-   Define your class in a source file named `Transaction.java`
    and all your parsing, processing and reporting methods (as well as a
    runnable `main` method that reads the input file name to
    process) in a source file named `TransactionUtils.java`.
    Include sufficient documentation.

-   Turn in your test case file, `transactions.csv` to the
    webhandin as well.

-   Turn in all of your files via webhandin, making sure that it runs
    and executes correctly in the grader.
