
# Hack 14.0
**Computer Science I**
> Department of Computer Science & Engineering  
> University of Nebraska–Lincoln  
> Java Version
------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Problem Statement

Data processing is fundamental to Computer Science and many other
disciplines. In this hack you will start a mini-project in which you
will process a large amount of transaction data from a financial
institution. The data represents transactions that transfer funds from
or to an account.[^1]

The Data {#the-data .unnumbered}
--------

Transaction data is represented as a flat file in CSV format. The first
line indicates how many records are contained in the file. Each
subsequent line represents a single transaction. A transaction includes
the following pieces of data:

-   A universally unique identifier (UUID), an alphanumeric designation
    that uniquely identifies the transaction

-   The type of transaction, which may be one of the following: , , , ,

-   The amount of the transaction

-   The customer account number

-   The customer account balance before the transaction

-   The customer account balance after the transaction

-   The transfer account number or merchant designation identifying
    where the funds are sent

A small example is provided in Figure \[figure:dataFile\].

``` {.text fontsize="\scriptsize"}
10
BC377639-37CC-4824-81AF-60177418B46D,PAYMENT,14535.18,C1906093041,83310.00,68774.82,M95867054
A35686EA-BFE7-455E-A027-54D73968E6D3,PAYMENT,11367.98,C371579810,77199.32,65831.34,M1932650331
7721D4C1-5A2E-4AA0-8AC3-351DFC4FE84A,DEPOSIT,159266.75,C1387043512,7777736.40,7937003.15,C553899299
F8A44740-DE85-4477-9E5E-C090AABE0BF2,WITHDRAWAL,79628.70,C739752704,203042.00,123413.30,C579345824
043FD663-236E-4C02-B042-E2642AA6471E,DEBIT,3225.27,C750937249,99375.00,96149.73,C1232504595
E0EB18EC-4EE2-4206-8834-9465992D1B28,PAYMENT,11268.73,C385148617,167267.40,155998.67,M1084205719
C306CA7E-80A0-499E-8CDE-13DFB50C6753,PAYMENT,17526.96,C1474376627,332543.08,315016.12,M1944361847
003C45B2-1356-4C7F-8D8A-EBB7BF026F16,DEPOSIT,149504.20,C386278926,56082.00,205586.20,C1113941243
B7ECC2F3-E455-4EF8-B4DF-55150A9F3B1F,PAYMENT,7676.11,C2018933315,542758.39,535082.28,M1018630839
76947698-1302-47D9-9CAF-66F21A2A6A52,PAYMENT,3240.99,C208944046,4778.00,1537.01,M962275185
```

Modeling & Loading the Data {#modeling-loading-the-data .unnumbered}
---------------------------

To start, you’ll need to write a C program that reads and processes a
data file containing financial transactions in the format described
above. You should design and implement a good model for this data as
you’ll use this code as the basis for producing several reports.

In addition, you should design at least 1 non-trivial test input file
that has at least 2 examples of each type of transaction. You should
name your file and hand it in.

Reporting the Data {#reporting-the-data .unnumbered}
------------------

To ensure that your data parsing works, you’ll need to produce a report
that, for each type of transaction, produces a total number of
transactions as well as a total of all amounts of those transactions.
For example, the input in Figure \[figure:dataFile\] should produce a
report that may look like the output in Figure \[figure:simpleReport\].

``` {.text}
=======================================
Totals Report
=======================================
Type            Count             Total
=======================================
Payment             6  $       65615.95
Transfer            0  $           0.00
Withdraw            1  $       79628.70
Debit               1  $        3225.27
Deposit             2  $      308770.95
=======================================
Total              10  $      457240.87
```

Your program should take the name of the input file as a command line
argument and output the report to the standard output.

Instructions {#instructions .unnumbered}
============

-   Place all of your function definitions in a source file named and
    hand it in with your header file, . Your main function should be
    placed in a file named . This function will produce the report
    above.

-   Turn in your test case file, to the webhandin as well.

-   You are encouraged to collaborate with any number of students
    before, during, and after your scheduled hack session.

-   Include the name(s) of everyone who worked together on this activity
    in your source file’s header.

-   Turn in all of your files via webhandin, making sure that it runs
    and executes correctly in the webgrader. Each individual student
    will need to hand in their own copy and will receive their own
    individual grade.

[^1]: The data we use is derived from financial data generated by
    PaySim, a transaction simulator, see
    <https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1>
